Mobile App Testing Approach (Static and Dynamic)


Tech code ahe 
        1. first we get the .apk application file
        2. then its is converted to .zip extension
        3. then the file is extracted 
        4. use apk tool to decompile apk file  (to use apktool we should install java)
        5. copy that apk file to apktool folder then run on cmd as apktool d filename.apk
        6. then a new folder is created with same name
        7. that apkfolder contains androidmanfiest.xml file and apktool.yml file
        8. apktool.yml contains
           a. we need to identify sdkversion which should be 19 or greaterthen 19.
        9. androidmainfiest.xml contains
           a. check permission (no write permission should be there)  
           b. check permission (check on application functionality )                     
           c. andriod exported components (four) are there.        
           d. android allow backup should be (false)
           e. android allow debuggable should be (fase)
        10. then copy that classes.dex file that we found at extracting the folder.
        11. then we use dex2jar to convert classes.dex file to converted classes.dex2jar file.
        12. for converting the file drag and drop the file on d2j-dex2jar file
        13. then we get executable jar file classes.dexjar.
        14. now in order to open the file we need a tool called jdgui.
        15. for that we just open the tool and add the classes.dex2jar file in it.
        16. now we check  
           a. source obfuscation of android code should be checked. (it should not visible properly)+
           b. printStackTrace in Application Source Code (should not be present at code)
           c. Hard-coded credentials on source code. (username/pass should not be present at code)
           d. Insecure/deprecated cryptographic algorithms (RC4, MD5, SHA1) on source code. (check it on our codes not on third party)  
           e. Identify hardcoded key in application or Keys may be intercepted via Binary attacks. (check for keys)
           f. Identify use of custom encryption protocol. (AES kind of encryption should be present)
           g. checkServerTrusted with nobody. (key to find ssl pinning is present or not / also check for certificate)
           h. Value of AllowAllHostnameVerifier (check it in on the code)
           i. Identify misconfiguration on "android.webkit.WebSettings". 
        17.   Drozer-- install python {2.7} (used to check for exported file and exploit them)
           a. install the Drozer in windows.  {to do port forwarding before using drozer}(# adb forward tcp:31415 tcp:31415)
           b. To list out all the packages installed on the emulator run {app.package.list –f}
           c. {run app.package.info-a com.mwr.example.sieve} (run this command to get the exported component).
           d. exploit
           
       --> [ Dynamic Aproach ]
       
        18. SSL Unpinning
           a. download xposed framework. 
           b. then download SSL 2.0 in xposed framework module. 
           c. select any application which have to be unpinned.
        19. Root bypass
           a. then download root cloak plus in xposed framework module 
           b. same as ssl 2.0 select any application for root bypass.
        20. burp IP setting 
           a. port and ip of android device and burp should be same of base machine.
           b. download ca certificate 
           c. sd card storage rename with extenstion .cer
           d. In settings go security - install from storage device.  
           
           We can other tools as well to pentest mobile with virtualization such as androidStudio, NOX, Genymotion etc
